# placebot

This is a functional bot for the r/place 2022 event, supporting at the time of writing all (4) canvases.

Based on code from https://github.com/goatgoose/PlaceBot and https://github.com/rdeepak2002/reddit-place-script-2022.

## Functionality
- does NOT use the reddit API
- Convert input image to be drawn to target configuration, ignores transparent pixels
- Supports multiple accounts
- Supports obtaining the target configuration from a server (or local file) to prevent outdated templates
- Supports multiple canvases (4 at the time of writing)
- Goes to sleep when only few mismatched pixels remain

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.5+
- Git

### Linux
I hope you know what you're doing.

### Windows
Git: https://git-scm.com/
Python: https://www.python.org/downloads/

To use python on Windows, you will have to add the python installation directory to your PATH environment variable. You can do the same for pip, but just using `python -m pip` should also work.
You can then open a shell by right clicking and hitting bash here in the directory of your choice.


## Installation
Clone the repostory:
```
git clone https://github.com/Geosearchef/placebot.git
```

Create a virtual environment (if you want to install globally, skip this)
```
python3 -m virtualenv .venv
```

source the environment (for bash)
```
source .venv/bin/activate
```

and install the dependencies:
```
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Generate target configuration
To paint an image you need a template in the form of a PNG that will be converted into a configuration file. 
```
python3 src/image_converter.py [filename] [x] [y]
```
The position specified is that of the top left pixel.
The generated file contains the coordinates and closest available place color for each pixel of the input image that hasn't set alpha to 0.

You can then put the generated file on a web server of your choosing.
Alternatively, just put it in the folder next to the local configuration file.

**If you are using Windows** with a local target configuration file, make sure to use double backslashes `C:\\path\\to\\the\\file.cfg` as the backslash `\` is an escape character in JSON.

### Configure local
Copy the configuration template:
```
cp config.template.json config.json
```

Configure the accounts to be used in `config.json`.
Set the ```target_configuration_url``` to the URL of the web server serving the target configuration file you generated using the image converter above. In case you do not want to use a web server for coordination of multiple people, you can also enter a local file path.

You can then run the bot using:
```
python3 src/placebot.py
```

It should log into the specified accounts and start drawing. Every 5 minutes, each account pulls the current board and compares it to the target configuration. The target configuration is updated every minute from the specified webserver to keep all clients in sync. When it detects a mismatch, it places a pixel with the desired color.

## Placement order
When placing pixels, the bot will prioritize them in the order specified in the target configuration file as supplied by the server. By default, the `image_converter.py` generates pixels from top to bottom, but this can be change by exchanging the loops.

The bot will scan the image for mismatched pixels, order them according to priority and pick one from the first 8 randomly to avoid conflicting with other bots that happen to be placing at the same time.

## To be noted
The bot only pulls information for canvases specified in the target configuration. This is generated by the image converter automatically.

The bot goes to sleep when it detects that there are only a few pixels left to be placed, only refreshing every 120s (till it detects it should wake up again).
